
1 Understand the principles of project management and the methodologies used by 
organisations to manage IT projects.

  1.1 Explain the stages of the project lifecycle as they apply to a given IT 
  project.

    Initiation - In this stage, you must create a well-defined plan from your idea. 
    Create a business plan, laying out why your idea is the solution for a 
    given problem. Confirm you have the resources and that bring your idea into 
    reality is viable and realistic. Document and clear set of goals and methods 
    you're going complete and use to create your project.

    Planning - Create a timelime and define when you'll complete different tasks 
    to complete your goal. Establish what resources you have and what you will 
    need at different stages. Ensure 3rd parties and communcation is ready for 
    when you need them and also can handle how much you need them. Break down 
    problems into managable tasks.

    Execution - Start executing your plan. Contact or even meet people, delegate 
    tasks if required and begin creating tangible things from the tasks given.

    Control - Manage ongoing tasks while keeping track of the expected timeline. 
    Results should be similiar to the expected results, including ensure all 
    included groups are keeping to the budget. Ensure all parties have the 
    required resources and tools.

    Closure - Get feedback from all parties that helped create your project, 
    on every task that was completed, before getting feedback from the 
    client. You may have to modify or revise certain aspects so this stage 
    can be repeated until final completion.

  1.2 Describe key concepts, issues and risks when managing IT projects.

    Security - Leaving your company or customers open to further exploits or 
      problems leaves you liable and will destroy your project (and probably) 
      company before you can begin.
    Budget - A cost of what is needed should be carefully planned before any 
      start is made and it is key to keep to this limit. Without the resources 
      needed, the project cannot be completed.
    Time - Breaking down a project into managable tasks with clear objectives 
      and a set amount of time for completion is key for finishing your project 
      on time. The longer somethings takes, usually, the more it costs. Resources 
      are limited.


  1.3 Compare the characteristics of different project management methodologies 
  used by organisations.

    Adaptive - My preffered method, the only constants are the budget and 
      timeframe. The management of a project changes as circumstances change to 
      maximize output.
    Agile - Agile development is based on small tasks being completed quickly. 
      Control of the project is loose and delivery of results are often with a 
      focus on real-time communication between members of the team.
    Rapid - This method focus on developing high quality products in a fast way. 
      Modules of code created is re-use to speed up completion and communication is
      done in a very informal way.
    Scrum - A common methodoligy, with a heavy focus on removing any problems,
      allowing the team to reach it's full potential and complete tasks in the 
      most easy way possible. Scrum projects are managed by a Scrum master.


2 Be able to use project management software to plan an IT project.

  2.1 Produce a project specification for an IT project in line with requirements.

  2.2 Use project management software to plan an IT project.

    For this I used Trello. My project is small so the plan was also small, laying 
    out and making clear what the objectives. First, I created a rough draft of 
    my project, then following my project plan, intergated git and visual code 
    support, finishing a first version and finally finishing the documentation 
    before release. The screenshot PM - plan.jpg shows my simple goals.


3 Be able to use project management software to monitor and review an IT project.

  3.1 Use project management software to monitor a project plan and track progress against the plan.

    By combining Git, Trello and Visual Code with extentions, when changes are made 
    to my project, the unittests are executed, giving me the status of key parts 
    of my code so I can check againt the plan on Trello and cross off completed 
    tasks as they happen. Git hooks have also allowed me to test my code on 
    different operation systems and automated tests with git hooks when Visual Code 
    wasn't availible.


3.2 Carry out a post-project review to determine project outcomes.



Reference(s);
https://kissflow.com/project/stages-of-project-management/
https://www.teamwork.com/blog/project-life-cycle/
https://www.tutorialspoint.com/management_concepts/project_management_methodologies.htm
