Unit Learning Outcomes
1
Understand the features of object oriented programming.

Key features: discrete, reusable units of programming logic, identification of objects, data abstraction, modularity, classification, inheritance, polymorphism, encapsulation, classes, methods, message passing.

Encapsulation: bundles data and methods that work on that data within one unit.

Inheritance: reusability enables new objects to take on the properties of existing objects.

Polymorphism: the ability of a variable, function or object to take on multiple forms.

Programming languages: e.g. Visual Basic.NET (VB.NET), C++, C#, Java, Python.

Assessment Criteria
1.1
Explain the key features of object oriented programming.

1.2
Explain the importance of encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism in object oriented programming.

2
Be able to use tools and techniques of an object oriented programming language

Tools: e.g. predefined functions, screen templates.

Techniques: using integrated development environment (IDE).

Variables: global, local, static, overloaded results, instance.

Assessment Criteria
2.1
Demonstrate use of object oriented tools and techniques.

3
Be able to design and develop an object oriented program to meet requirements.

Classes: class diagram, dependencies and inheritances, identification attributes, methods, the control of scope of attributes and methods, inheritance, aggregation, association, polymorphism, pre-defined classes e.g. class library, downloaded, imported.

Objects: e.g. constructors, destructors, building a program with reusable objects, defining relationships between objects, implementing message passing between objects.

Creation of program: use of development environment, debugging, data validation, error handling and reporting.

Programming language syntax: e.g. selecting, declaring and initialising variable and data structure types and sizes.

Constructs: selection e.g. if … then … else, CASE, iteration e.g. while … do, repeat … until.

Programming standards: e.g. use of comments, code layout, indentation.

Assessment Criteria
3.1
Design an object oriented program.

3.2
Develop an object oriented program.

4
Be able to test and document an object oriented program.

Testing: test strategy, test plan structure e.g. test, date, expected result, actual result, corrective action, error messages, specialist software tools e.g. debug.

Review: against specifications requirements, interim reviews.

Documentation: user guide, technical support.

Assessment Criteria
4.1
Test an object oriented program.

4.2
Document appropriate action to correct errors.

4.3
Create technical documentation for the support and maintenance of the program.

