
1.1 Explain the stages of the project lifecycle as they apply to a given IT project.
Idea - All things start from an idea.
Planning - The idea needs to be broken down and wrote so you have something to work from and can better manage your time.
Preparing - You may need 3rd party software or licences, translations or graphic design first. You'll also most likely need a certain set of tools to build your project and these may also need configuring.
Creating - Start actually building key components of your project and putting them together.
Debugging - Test your code. Try to break it. Prepare for anything, not everyone who uses your code with have the intention of using it how it was designed. It is key that you test for security exploits vigoriously.
Refining - Some aspects of your project like tranlations, hotkeys or the gui positioning may need a little polishing up before you feel ready to release them.
Release - Let the audience see the show! 
Update - You may not catch all the problems in the earlier stages so here is when we fix them as we, or our users, find them and release an update to solve the problem on the user end.
Repeat - Keep updating your application.

Describe key concepts, issues and risks when managing IT projects.
Compare the characteristics of different project management methodologies used by organisations.

Produce a project specification for an IT project in line with requirements.
Use project management software to plan an IT project.

Use project management software to monitor a project plan and track progress against the plan.
Carry out a post-project review to determine project outcomes.






Conception and start up: project mandate, client requirements, and feasibility.

Definition of the project: set up project team, create the Project Initiation Document (PID).

Planning: timescales, costs, quality management, risk management and controls.

Launch and execution: carrying out the plan, monitoring activity, checking progress.

Closure: handover of the product, user acceptance testing, disbanding project team.

Post-project evaluation: reviewing the project against success criteria.







 1 IDEA
 2 KEY TERMS