
2
Understand how programming is implemented.

Variables: integer, float, Boolean, string, character.

Programming control structures: sequence (line-by-line execution), selection (if…then…else, ELSEIF (ELIF), nested if, case/switch)

Iteration: repeat, for, while, do-while.

Common data structures uses: linked lists, arrays, stacks, queues.

Algorithms: sorting (bubble, quick, insertion, merge), searching (serial/linear, binary).

Test and debug programs: tools used to debug programs logical next line, step into, step out, next instruction, break point).

Ordered stages of testing: black box, white box, alpha, beta.


2.1 Interpret variables within programming languages.

Variables are, most commonly, 3 things;
Name - Something you call the variable so you can use it
Address - The address of the where the variable data is stored
Value - The data stored within the variable

Aswel as this, variables can be of different types. Some languages, variables can be anything and treated as such. In others, variables must be defined by type too. Common types include char, int, double, float and arrays. A type-defined variable will allow the computer to process, store and read the variable in more appropiate ways.

2.2 Interpret common programming control structures that are used when developing code.

Control structures are how we control the flow of control in programs. Every thing we code is executed in sequence until we and conditional logic. The most common example is the 'if' statement and can be extended to become an 'if-else' statement. 'While' statements can be used to repeat an action until a condition is met and 'for loops' allow you to iterate over data. With these being combinable and nestable, intensly complex routes though huge code bases can soon become just the basic operation of your program. Keywords like break and continue are ways we can exit loops we create. A more simple example is below.

// C
if (x == y)
{
	// Do something
}

# Python
if x is y:
	while x is y:
		# Do something
		break
	while 1 == 0:
		continue
else:
	for a in b:
		# Do something

2.3 Describe the use of common data structures.

Array - An array is a fixed-size block of memory that can hold multiple of the same type of type. This can be an array of integers, bytes, strings, even more arrays.
List - A list can be treated like a dynamically resizing array. While each item in the array is it's own node with it's own memory, it also holds the address to the node that comes before and the node that comes after. These can be singly linked (one directional traversal), doubly linked (bi-directional traversal) or circular (with the last item referring the the first as it's next item)
Stack - A stack is a Last In First Out structure that is again like an array however you access and set the elements using 'pop' and 'push' methods. Popping an element removes the last element that was added. Pushing an item adds it to the stack.
Queue - A stack is a First In First Out structure that is the same as a stack but backwards. Popping an element removes the first element that was added. Pushing an item adds it to the queue.

2.4 Describe how algorithms are used in programming.
Algorithms are used in programming to correctly, quickly and safely process data in certain way according to the data and the required result. They represent a set of rules and can be very simple to incredibly complex. This can range from how to print a string to how to search through data for strings and everything inbetween.

2.5 Describe how to test and debug programs.
The best way to test and debug programs is to run them on as many different machines you can get your hands on, record all the results, successes and failures, crashes and problems and work throgh them one by one. When this is done, try and break your program. More than test it, prepare for utter savagry. Compilers ofter give very detailed error messages and links to documentaion to hunt down anything not as obvious as you'd like. Interactive Develpment Enviroments use debugger to attach to the program at runtime, allowing for live inspection of variables and functions. Breakpoints can be used to halt execution whenever needed. A very time-consuming way to debug problems is to use print statements and logging results to the console at certain points of execution.
