Assessment Criteria
1.1
Explain the principles and concepts of programming languages.

2
Understand how programming is implemented.

Variables: integer, float, Boolean, string, character.

Programming control structures: sequence (line-by-line execution), selection (if…then…else, ELSEIF (ELIF), nested if, case/switch)

Iteration: repeat, for, while, do-while.

Common data structures uses: linked lists, arrays, stacks, queues.

Algorithms: sorting (bubble, quick, insertion, merge), searching (serial/linear, binary).

Test and debug programs: tools used to debug programs logical next line, step into, step out, next instruction, break point).

Ordered stages of testing: black box, white box, alpha, beta.

Assessment Criteria
2.1
Interpret variables within programming languages.

2.2
Interpret common programming control structures that are used when developing code.

2.3
Describe the use of common data structures.

2.4
Describe how algorithms are used in programming.

2.5
Describe how to test and debug programs.

3
Understand the importance of good programming practices.

Common coding standards: open (free to apply own style for code), not limited for language constructs, can select any programming language.

Organisational: common style guide for code, guide for language constructs, pre-determined programming language.

Good programming practices: commenting, documentation (to keep a log of events), consistent indentation (shows logical structure), code grouping (grouping data so that the elements in each group share a common attribute), consistent naming (so that variables are easily identifiable), camel case, underscores, Don’t Repeat Yourself (DRY) principle (to reduce the amount of work required to extend and maintain the software in the future), programming refactoring (to improve non-functional attributes of software).

Assessment Criteria
3.1
Identify the elements of common coding standards.

3.2
Explain the role and importance of good coding practices.

4
Understand functional and non-functional requirements in programming

Functional requirements: calculations, technical details, data manipulation, data processing.

Non-functional requirements: accessibility, efficiency, reliability, scalability, maintainability, security, robustness.

Functional testing: unit testing, smoke testing, integration testing, system testing.

Non-functional testing: availability testing, compatibility testing, configuration testing, load testing.

Assessment Criteria
4.1
Identify the types of functional and non-functional requirements.

4.2
Describe the tests used for functional and non-functional requirements.

